debezium/dbz#1850 Add YashanDB connector documentation (#7489)
debezium/debezium: documentation/modules/ROOT/pages/connectors/yashandb.adoc

[id="debezium-connector-for-yashandb"]
= {prodname} Connector for YashanDB

:context: yashandb
:data-collection: table
:database-port: 1688
:mbean-name: {context}
:connector-class: YashanDb
:connector-file: {context}
:connector-name: YashanDB
:include-list-example: inventory.customers
:collection-container: database.schema

:toc:
:toc-placement: macro
:linkattrs:
:icons: font

toc::[]

[[yashandb-overview]]
== Overview

YashanDB is a next-generation database management system independently developed by the Shenzhen Institute of Computing Sciences.
Based on classical database theory, it integrates original computing paradigms including bounded computation, approximate computation, parallel scalability, and cross-modal fusion computing.
This enables YashanDB to meet the demanding requirements of core industries such as finance, government, and energy for high performance, high concurrency, and high security.

> {prodname}'s YashanDB connector captures and records row-level changes that occur in databases on a YashanDB server, including tables that are added while the connector is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {prodname} YashanDB connector captures and records row-level changes that occur in databases on a YashanDB server, including tables that are added while the connector is running.
```
Although I acknowledge that the existing documentation includes instances where the Debezium name is used to form a possessive, avoid use of this construction.

Author: Done.

You can configure the connector to emit change events for specific subsets of schemas and tables, synchronizing the change events to Kafka.

For information about the YashanDB versions that are compatible with this connector, see the {prodname} release overview.

{prodname} can ingest change events from YashanDB by using the native YStream database package.

> For more information about YashanDB and YStream, see the https://www.yashandb.com/[YashanDB official website].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about YashanDB and YStream, see the https://www.yashandb.com/[YashanDB website^].
```
Add `^` markup to open the external link in a new tab or page.

Author: Done.

> [[how-the-yashandb-connector-works]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[[how-the-debezium-yashandb-connector-works]]
```

Author: Done.

> == How the YashanDB connector works

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== How the {prodname} YashanDB connector works
```

Author: Done.

To optimally configure and run a {prodname} YashanDB connector, it is helpful to understand how the connector works.

[[yashandb-ystream-mechanism]]
=== YStream Mechanism

> The YashanDB connector uses YashanDB's native YStream feature to capture changes from the database transaction logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {prodname} YashanDB connector uses the YashanDB YStream interface to capture changes from the database transaction logs.
```

Author: Done.

> YStream is YashanDB's Change Data Capture (CDC) mechanism.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
YStream is the native Change Data Capture (CDC) engine in YashanDB.
```
Avoid using product and component names as possessives.

Author: Done.

4. After the snapshot completes, the connector switches to streaming mode and continuously captures incremental data changes through YStream.

[[yashandb-snapshots]]
=== Snapshots

The redo logs on a YashanDB server are typically configured to not retain the complete history of the database.
As a result, the {prodname} YashanDB connector cannot retrieve the entire history of the database from the logs.
To enable the connector to establish a baseline for the current state of the database, the first time that the connector starts, it performs an initial _consistent snapshot_ of the database.

[[yashandb-snapshot-mode-options]]
.Settings for `snapshot.mode` connector configuration property
[cols="30%a,70%a",options="header"]
|===
|Setting |Description

|`always`
|Perform a snapshot on each connector start.
After the snapshot completes, the connector begins to stream event records for subsequent database changes.

|`initial`
|The connector performs a database snapshot.
After the snapshot completes, the connector begins to stream event records for subsequent database changes.

|`initial_only`

> |The connector performs a database snapshot and stops before streaming any change event records, not allowing any subsequent change events to be captured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The connector performs a database snapshot and stops before streaming any change event records. The connector does not capture any change events that occur after the snapshot.
```

Author: Done.

This database schema history topic is for internal connector use only.
Optionally, the connector can also xref:yashandb-schema-change-topic[emit schema change events to a different topic that is intended for consumer applications].

[[yashandb-schema-change-topic]]
=== Schema change topic

You can configure a {prodname} YashanDB connector to produce schema change events that describe structural changes that are applied to tables in the database.
The connector writes schema change events to a Kafka topic named `_<serverName>_`, where `_serverName_` is the namespace that is specified in the xref:yashandb-property-topic-prefix[`topic.prefix`] configuration property.

{prodname} emits a new message to the schema change topic whenever it streams data from a new table, or when the structure of the table is altered.

Messages that the connector sends to the schema change topic contain a payload, and, optionally, also contain the schema of the change event message.

The schema for the schema change event has the following elements:

`name`:: The name of the schema change event message.
`type`:: The type of the change event message.

> `version`:: The version of the schema. The version is an integer that is incremented each time the schema is changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`version`:: The version of the schema. 
The version is an integer that is incremented each time the schema is changed.
```

Author: Done.

              "nativeType": null,
              "typeName": "VARCHAR2",
              "typeExpression": "VARCHAR2",
              "charsetName": null,
              "length": 255,
              "scale": null,
              "position": 2,
              "optional": true,
              "autoIncremented": false,
              "generated": false
            }
          ],
          "attributes": [ // <11>
            {
              "customAttribute": "attributeValue"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

.Descriptions of fields in messages emitted to the schema change topic
[cols="1,4,5",options="header"]
|===
|Item |Field name |Description

|1
|`ts_ms`
|Optional field that displays the time at which the connector processed the event.
The time is based on the system clock in the JVM running the Kafka Connect task.

|2
|`databaseName`
|Identifies the database that contains the change.

|3
|`schemaName`
|Identifies the schema that contains the change.

|4
|`ddl`
|This field contains the DDL that is responsible for the schema change.

|5
|`tableChanges`
|An array of one or more items that contain the schema changes generated by a DDL command.

|6
|`type`

> a|Describes the kind of change. The `type` can be set to one of the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a|Describes the kind of change. 
The `type` can be set to one of the following values:
```

Author: Done.

The following example shows a typical transaction boundary message:

.Example: YashanDB connector transaction boundary event

[source,json,indent=0,subs="+attributes"]
----
{
  "status": "BEGIN",
  "id": "5.6.641",
  "ts_ms": 1486500577125,
  "event_count": null,
  "data_collections": null
}

{
  "status": "END",
  "id": "5.6.641",
  "ts_ms": 1486500577691,
  "event_count": 2,
  "data_collections": [
    {
      "data_collection": "inventory.DEBEZIUM.CUSTOMERS",
      "event_count": 1
    },
    {
      "data_collection": "inventory.DEBEZIUM.ORDERS",
      "event_count": 1
    }
  ]
}
----

[[yashandb-events]]
== Data change events

Every data change event that the YashanDB connector emits has a key and a value.
The structures of the key and value depend on the table from which the change events originate.
For information about how {prodname} constructs topic names, see xref:yashandb-topic-names[Topic names].

[WARNING]
====
The {prodname} YashanDB connector ensures that all Kafka Connect _schema names_ are http://avro.apache.org/docs/current/spec.html#names[valid Avro schema names].

> This means that the logical server name must start with alphabetic characters or an underscore ([a-z,A-Z,\_]),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To qualify as a valid Avro schema name, the logical server name must start with an alphabetic character or an underscore ([a-z,A-Z,\_]). 
```

Author: Done.

> and the remaining characters in the logical server name and all characters in the schema and table names must be alphanumeric characters or an underscore ([a-z,A-Z,0-9,\_]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The remaining characters in the logical server name, and all characters in the schema and table names, must be alphanumeric characters or underscores ([a-z,A-Z,0-9,\_]).
```

Author: Done.

The connector automatically replaces invalid characters with an underscore character.

Unexpected naming conflicts can result when the only distinguishing characters between multiple logical server names, schema names, or table names are not valid characters, and those characters are replaced with underscores.
====

{prodname} and Kafka Connect are designed around _continuous streams of event messages_.
However, the structure of these events might change over time, which can be difficult for topic consumers to handle.
To facilitate the processing of mutable event structures, each event in Kafka Connect is self-contained.
Every message key and value has two parts: a _schema_ and _payload_.
The schema describes the structure of the payload, while the payload contains the actual data.

[[yashandb-change-event-keys]]
=== Change event keys

For each changed table, the change event key is structured such that a field exists for each column in the primary key (or unique key constraint) of the table at the time when the event is created.

> For example, a `customers` table that is defined in the `inventory` database schema:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, consider the following SQL for a `customers` table that is defined in the `inventory` database schema:
```

Author: Done.

`name`::
The `schema` section can contain multiple `name` fields.
Each `name` field specifies the schema for a field in the payload of the event value.
+
`server1.inventory.customers.Value` is the schema for the payload's `before` and `after` fields.
This schema is specific to the `customers` table.
+
The schema names of the `before` and `after` fields are of the form `_logicalName_._schemaName_._tableName_.Value`.
This format ensures that schema names are unique within the database.
In environments that use the {link-prefix}:{link-avro-serialization}#avro-serialization[Avro converter], having unique schema names ensures that the Avro schema for each table in each logical source has its own evolution and history.

`"name": "io.debezium.connector.yashandb.Source"`::
`io.debezium.connector.yashandb.Source` is the schema for the payload's `source` field.
This schema is specific to the YashanDB connector.
The connector uses it for all events that it generates.

`"name": "server1.inventory.customers.Envelope"`::
Specifies the name of the schema for the overall structure of the payload.
The schema name is made up of the following elements:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

Author: Done.

`server1`::: Specifies the name of the connector that generated this event.
`inventory`::: Specifies the database that contains the table that was changed.
`customers`::: Specifies the table that was changed.

`payload`::
Specifies the actual data for the row that was changed.
+
Because the JSON representation of an event includes both the schema and the payload portions of the message, it is often larger than the row that it describes.
To reduce the size of the messages that the connector streams to Kafka topics, you can use the {link-prefix}:{link-avro-serialization}#avro-serialization[Avro converter].

`op`::
Specifies the type of operation that caused the connector to generate the event.

> In this example, `c` indicates that a `create` operation was performed resulting in a new row.
> This field can contain one of the following values:
> [horizontal]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This field can contain one of the following values:
+
[horizontal]
```

Author: Done.

`c`::: Create a row.
`u`::: Update a row.
`d`::: Delete a row.
`r`::: Read a row (applies to only snapshots).

`ts_ms`, `ts_us`, `ts_ns`::
Displays timestamps in milliseconds, microseconds, and nanoseconds that indicate when the connector processed the event.
The time is based on the system clock in the JVM that runs the Kafka Connect task.

`before`::
An optional field that specifies the state of the row before the event occurred.
Because the `op` field in the preceding example is `c` (create), this change event describes new data, so the value of the `before` field is `null`.

`after`::
An optional field that specifies the state of the row after the event occurred.
In this example, the `after` field contains the values of the new row's `ID` and `NAME` columns.

`source`::
Mandatory field that describes the source metadata for the event.
This field contains information that you can use to compare this event to other events, with regard to the origin of the events, the order in which the events occurred, and whether events were part of the same transaction.

> The source metadata provides the following information:
> 
> `version`::: {prodname} version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source metadata provides the following information:
+
`version`::: {prodname} version.
```

Author: Done.

a|Optional field that displays the time at which the connector processed the event.
The time is based on the system clock in the JVM running the Kafka Connect task. +

In the `source` object, `ts_ms` indicates the time that the change was made in the database. By comparing the value for `payload.source.ts_ms` with the value for `payload.ts_ms`, you can determine the lag between the source database update and {prodname}.

|===

If a single `TRUNCATE` operation affects multiple tables, the connector emits one _truncate_ change event record for each truncated table.

[NOTE]
====
A _truncate_ event represents a change that is made to an entire table and it has no message key.
As a result, for topics with multiple partitions, there is no ordering guarantee for the change events (_create_, _update_, and so forth), or _truncate_ events that pertain to a table.
For example, if a consumer reads events for a table from multiple partitions, it might receive an _update_ event for a table from one partition after it receives a _truncate_ event that deletes all of the data in the table from another partition.
Ordering is guaranteed only for topics that use a single partition.
====

> If you do not want the connector to capture _truncate_ events, use the xref:yashandb-property-skipped-operations[`skipped.operations`] option to filter them out.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not want the connector to capture _truncate_ events, set the xref:yashandb-property-skipped-operations[`skipped.operations`] option to filter them out.
```

Author: Done.

[[yashandb-data-types]]
== Data type mapping

When the {prodname} YashanDB connector detects that a value in a table row has changed, it emits a change event that represents that change.
Each change event record has the same structure as the original table, and the event record contains a field for each column value.
The data type of the table column determines how the connector represents the column's value in the change event field.

> For each column in the table, Debezium maps the source data type to a literal type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each column in the table, {prodname} maps the source data type to a literal type.
```

Author: Done.

Literal types

> Describe how values are represented literally, using one of the following Kafka Connect schema types: `INT8`, `INT16`, `INT32`, `INT64`, `FLOAT32`, `FLOAT64`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`, `BYTES`, `ARRAY`, `MAP`, `STRUCT`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Literal types describe how {prodname} represents values literally, using one of the following Kafka Connect schema types: `INT8`, `INT16`, `INT32`, `INT64`, `FLOAT32`, `FLOAT64`, `BOOLEAN`, `STRING`, `BYTES`, `ARRAY`, `MAP`, `STRUCT`.
```

Author: Done.

.Mappings for YashanDB numeric types
[cols="20%a,15%a,55%a",options="header"]
|===
|YashanDB data type
|Literal type (schema type)
|Semantic type (schema name) and Notes

|`TINYINT`
|`INT8`
|n/a

|`SMALLINT`
|`INT16`
|n/a

|`INT`
|`INT32`
|n/a

|`BIGINT`
|`INT64`
|n/a

|`FLOAT`
|`FLOAT32`
|n/a

|`DOUBLE`
|`FLOAT64`
|n/a

|`NUMBER`
|`BYTES` / `INT8` / `INT16` / `INT32` / `INT64`
|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal` +
 +
Depending on the value of the xref:yashandb-property-decimal-handling-mode[`decimal.handling.mode`] property, the connector maps `NUMBER` to a `BYTES` representation, or one of the `INT` types.
For `NUMBER` with a negative scale, use `decimal.handling.mode=string` to avoid serialization issues.

|`BIT(1)`
|`BOOLEAN`
|n/a

|`BIT(n)`
|`BYTES`
|n/a

|`BOOLEAN`
|`BOOLEAN`
|n/a

|===

[id="yashandb-temporal-types"]
=== Temporal types

The following table describes how the connector maps temporal data types.
The way that the connector converts temporal types depends on the `time.precision.mode` configuration property.

.Mappings for YashanDB temporal types when `time.precision.mode` is `connect`
[cols="20%a,15%a,55%a",options="header"]

> |===
> |YashanDB data type
> |Literal type (schema type)
> |Semantic type (schema name) and Notes
> 
> |`DATE`
> |`INT64`
> |`io.debezium.time.Timestamp` +
>  +
> Represents the number of milliseconds since the UNIX epoch.
> 
> |`TIME`
> |`INT64`
> |`io.debezium.time.MicroTime` +
>  +
> Represents the number of microseconds past midnight.
> 
> |`TIMESTAMP`
> |`INT64`
> |`io.debezium.time.MicroTimestamp` +
>  +
> Represents the number of microseconds since the UNIX epoch.
> 
> |`INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH`
> |`FLOAT64`
> |`io.debezium.time.MicroDuration` +
>  +
> Represents the number of months in the interval, expressed as years with decimal precision.
> 
> |`INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND`
> |`FLOAT64`
> |`io.debezium.time.MicroDuration` +
>  +
> Represents the number of microseconds in the interval.
> 
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|===
|YashanDB data type
|Literal type (schema type)
|Semantic type (schema name) and Notes

|`DATE`
|`INT64`
|`io.debezium.time.Timestamp`

Represents the number of milliseconds since the UNIX epoch.

|`TIME`
|`INT64`
|`io.debezium.time.MicroTime`

Represents the number of microseconds past midnight.

|`TIMESTAMP`
|`INT64`
|`io.debezium.time.MicroTimestamp` 

Represents the number of microseconds since the UNIX epoch.

|`INTERVAL YEAR TO MONTH`
|`FLOAT64`
|`io.debezium.time.MicroDuration`

Represents the number of months in the interval, expressed as years with decimal precision.

|`INTERVAL DAY TO SECOND`
|`FLOAT64`
|`io.debezium.time.MicroDuration`

Represents the number of microseconds in the interval.

|===

```
Avoid appending  the trailing ` +`  to lines in table cells to enforce hard line breaks. We're in the process of removing instances of this combination from the docs, because it can result in problems when processing the docs for downstream use.

Author: Done.

When the property is set to its default value of `precise`, the connector maps these data types to the Kafka Connect `org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal` logical type.

When the property value is set to `double` or `string`, the connector uses alternate mappings.

.Mappings for numeric data types
[cols="25%a,25%a,25%a,25%a",options="header"]
|===
|YashanDB data type |`precise` |`double` |`string`

|`NUMBER`
|`org.apache.kafka.connect.data.Decimal`
|`FLOAT64`
|`STRING`

|===

DATE, TIME, and TIMESTAMP types are mapped to `INT64` (timestamp form) by default.
If you want to map them to a fixed format string such as `yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS`, refer to the <<yashandb-custom-converters,Data type conversion>> section.

[[yashandb-custom-converters]]
=== Custom converters

By default, the {prodname} YashanDB connector provides several `CustomConverter` implementations specific to YashanDB data types.
These custom converters provide alternative mappings for specific data types based on the connector configuration.

> To add a `CustomConverter` to the connector, follow the instructions in the link:../development/converters.adoc[Custom Converters documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a `CustomConverter` to the connector, follow the instructions in the {link-prefix}:{ link-custom-converters}#custom-converters.adoc[Custom Converters documentation].
```
The formatting of the cross-reference to the customer converters doc from the Oracle doc is incorrect. Please use the corrected formatting.

Author: Done.

[cols="40%a,60%a",options="header"]
|===
|Property |Description

|`yashandb_time_formatter.type`
|`io.debezium.connector.yashandb.converters.TimeToStringConverter`

|`yashandb_time_formatter.format.time`
|Time format, for example: `HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS`

|===

[[yashandb-custom-converters-usage-example]]
=== Usage example

Specify the following in the configuration:

[source,properties,indent=0]
----
# Name two converters: yashandb_timestamp_formatter for TIMESTAMP, yashandb_date_formatter for DATE
"converters": "yashandb_timestamp_formatter,yashandb_date_formatter"
# Bind yashandb_timestamp_formatter to TimestampToStringConverter class
"yashandb_timestamp_formatter.type": "io.debezium.connector.yashandb.converters.TimestampToStringConverter"
# Format TIMESTAMP data as yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS
"yashandb_timestamp_formatter.format.datetime": "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS"
# Bind yashandb_date_formatter to DateToStringConverter class
"yashandb_date_formatter.type": "io.debezium.connector.yashandb.converters.DateToStringConverter"
# Format DATE data as yyyy-MM-dd
"yashandb_date_formatter.format.date": "yyyy-MM-dd"
----

[[setting-up-yashandb]]
== Setting up YashanDB

> Before deploying and running the {prodname} YashanDB connector, you need to perform some configuration on the YashanDB database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before deploying and running the {prodname} YashanDB connector, adjust the YashanDB database configuration to ensure compatibility.
```

Author: Done.

[[yashandb-excluded-schemas]]
=== Schemas excluded from capture

When the {prodname} YashanDB connector captures tables, it automatically excludes tables from the following schemas:

* `SYS`
* `MDSYS`
* `XA_SYS`

To enable the connector to capture changes from a table, the table must use a schema that is not named in the preceding list.

[[yashandb-ystream-pool]]
=== Configure the YStream memory pool

Incremental data depends on YStream to obtain committed data from YashanDB in real time.
When you use YashanDB as the source for tasks that include incremental synchronization, you must first allocate a memory pool for YStream on YashanDB:

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
ALTER SYSTEM SET STREAM_POOL_SIZE = '512M';
----

[CAUTION]
====

> Failure to configure this parameter may cause the task to fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Failure to configure this parameter can cause the task to fail.
```

Author: Done.

This parameter is a global parameter.

> Please refer to the YashanDB official documentation for further assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the https://doc.yashandb.com/en/[YashanDB documentation].
```

Author: Done.

====

[[yashandb-supplemental-logging]]
=== Enable supplemental logging

Reading incremental data changes requires supplemental logging to be enabled.

==== Database-level supplemental logging

> When you need to monitor all objects in the database (including new objects), you can enable database-level supplemental logging:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To permit the connector to monitor all objects in the database, including new objects, enable database-level supplemental logging: in YashanDB:
```

Author: Done.

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG TABLE TYPE (HEAP);
ALTER DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (ALL) COLUMNS;
----

==== Table-level supplemental logging

> When you only need to monitor certain tables, you can enable table-level supplemental logging:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want the connector to monitor only specific tables, enable table-level supplemental logging in YashanDB:
```

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
ALTER TABLE tablename ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA (ALL) COLUMNS;
----

[CAUTION]
====

> It is important to note that failing to enable supplemental logging, or enabling it incorrectly, can result in data loss or even task failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to note that failing to enable supplemental logging, or enabling it incorrectly, can result in data loss or task failure.
```

=== Configure the YStream service

The YashanDB connector requires a YStream service to obtain incremental data.
The following are the steps to configure the YStream service.

==== Create a YStream service

Use the link:https://doc.yashandb.com/yashandb/23.5/zh/SQL-Guide/Built-in-Packages/DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.html#create[`DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.CREATE` procedure] to create a YStream service:

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.CREATE(
    server_name  IN VARCHAR(64),
    connect_user IN VARCHAR(64) DEFAULT NULL,
    start_scn    IN BIGINT DEFAULT NULL);
----

The `start_scn` is obtained by querying `SELECT CURRENT_SCN FROM V$DATABASE`.

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
EXEC DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.CREATE('serverName', 'connect_user', start_scn);
----

==== Add tables to the YStream service

Use the link:https://doc.yashandb.com/yashandb/23.5/zh/SQL-Guide/Built-in-Packages/DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.html#add-tables[`DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.ADD_TABLES` procedure] to add tables to be captured to the YStream service:

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.ADD_TABLES(
    server_name IN VARCHAR(64),
    table_names IN VARCHAR(4096),
    schemas     IN VARCHAR(4096));
----

[NOTE]
====

> The table names and schemas added here must be the same as those that the connector is configured to capture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The table names and schemas that you add to the service must be the same as those that the connector is configured to capture.
```

====

==== Set YStream service parameters

Use the link:https://doc.yashandb.com/yashandb/23.5/zh/SQL-Guide/Built-in-Packages/DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.html#set-parameter[`DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.SET_PARAMETER` procedure] to set parameters for an existing service:

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.SET_PARAMETER(
    server_name IN VARCHAR(64),
    parameter   IN VARCHAR(64),
    value       IN VARCHAR(64));
----

> The corresponding service must be in a state that allows the current operation to be executed (the service status can be obtained by querying the `V$YSTREAM_SERVER` view).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Set YStream service parameters

.Prerequisites
* The YStream service is available to configure.
Query the `V$YSTREAM_SERVER` view to obtain the service status.

Use the link:https://doc.yashandb.com/yashandb/23.5/zh/SQL-Guide/Built-in-Packages/DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.html#set-parameter[`DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.SET_PARAMETER` procedure] to set parameters for an existing service:

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.SET_PARAMETER(
    server_name IN VARCHAR(64),
    parameter   IN VARCHAR(64),
    value       IN VARCHAR(64));
----

```

[[yashandb-properties]]
== Connector properties

The {prodname} YashanDB connector has numerous configuration properties that you can use to achieve the right connector behavior for your application.
Many properties have default values.
Information about the properties is organized as follows:

* xref:yashandb-properties-required[Required {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration properties]

[[yashandb-properties-required]]
=== Required {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration properties

The {prodname} YashanDB connector uses numerous configuration properties to create the connector instance.
Descriptions of these properties are organized as follows:

* xref:required-debezium-yashandb-connector-configuration-properties[Required configuration properties]
* xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-optional-configuration-properties[Optional configuration properties]

[id="required-debezium-yashandb-connector-configuration-properties"]
==== Required configuration properties

[cols="30%a,25%a,45%a"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[yashandb-property-name]]<<yashandb-property-name, `+name+`>>
|No default

> |Unique name for the connector. Attempting to register again with the same name will fail. (This property is required by all Kafka Connect connectors.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Unique name for the connector. 
You can use the specified name to register a connector only once.
Registration fails if you attempt to reuse a connector name. 
This property is required by all Kafka Connect connectors.)
```

|[[yashandb-property-connector-class]]<<yashandb-property-connector-class, `+connector.class+`>>
|No default

> |The name of the Java class for the connector. Always use a value of `io.debezium.connector.yashandb.YashanDbConnector` for the YashanDB connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the Java class for the connector. 
Always use the folllowing value for the YashanDB connector:

 `io.debezium.connector.yashandb.YashanDbConnector`
```

|[[yashandb-property-tasks-max]]<<yashandb-property-tasks-max, `+tasks.max+`>>
|`1`

> |The maximum number of tasks to create for this connector. The YashanDB connector always uses a single task and therefore does not use this value, so the default is always acceptable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The maximum number of tasks to create for this connector. 
The YashanDB connector always uses a single task and therefore does not use this value, so the default is always acceptable.
```

|[[yashandb-property-database-hostname]]<<yashandb-property-database-hostname, `+database.hostname+`>>
|No default
|IP address or hostname of the YashanDB database server.

|[[yashandb-property-database-port]]<<yashandb-property-database-port, `+database.port+`>>
|No default
|Integer port number of the YashanDB database server.

|[[yashandb-property-database-user]]<<yashandb-property-database-user, `+database.user+`>>
|No default
|Name of the YashanDB user account that the connector uses to connect to the YashanDB database server.

|[[yashandb-property-database-password]]<<yashandb-property-database-password, `+database.password+`>>
|No default
|Password to use when connecting to the YashanDB database server.

|[[yashandb-property-database-dbname]]<<yashandb-property-database-dbname, `+database.dbname+`>>
|No default
|The name of the YashanDB database.

|[[yashandb-property-database-url]]<<yashandb-property-database-url, `+database.url+`>>
|No default
|The JDBC URL for the YashanDB database. Format: `jdbc:yasdb://<host>:1688/<dbname>`.

|[[yashandb-property-ystream-server-name]]<<yashandb-property-ystream-server-name, `+database.ystream.server.name+`>>
|No default

> |The name of the YStream service on the YashanDB database. Specify the YStream service name created in the "Configure YStream service" step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the YStream service on the YashanDB database. 
Specify the YStream service name created in the "Configure YStream service" step.
```

|[[yashandb-property-topic-prefix]]<<yashandb-property-topic-prefix, `+topic.prefix+`>>
|No default

> |Topic prefix that provides a namespace for the YashanDB database server from which the connector captures changes. The value you set is used as the prefix for all Kafka topic names that the connector emits. Specify a topic prefix that is unique across all connectors in your Debezium environment. Valid characters include alphanumeric characters, hyphens, dots, and underscores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Topic prefix that provides a namespace for the YashanDB database server from which the connector captures changes. 
The value that you set is used as the prefix for all Kafka topic names that the connector emits. 
Specify a topic prefix that is unique across all connectors in your {prodname} environment. 
Valid characters include alphanumeric characters, hyphens, dots, and underscores.
```

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-kafka-bootstrap-servers]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-kafka-bootstrap-servers, `+schema.history.internal.kafka.bootstrap.servers+`>>
|No default
|A list of Kafka brokers that the connector uses to write and recover DDL statements to the database schema history topic.

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-kafka-topic]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-kafka-topic, `+schema.history.internal.kafka.topic+`>>
|No default

> |The name of the database schema history topic where the connector writes and recovers DDL statements. This topic is for internal use only and should not be used by consumers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the database schema history topic where the connector writes and recovers DDL statements. 
This topic is for internal use only and should not be used by consumers.
```

|===

[id="debezium-yashandb-connector-optional-configuration-properties"]
==== Optional configuration properties

[cols="30%a,25%a,45%a"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[yashandb-property-ystream-blocking-queue-size]]<<yashandb-property-ystream-blocking-queue-size, `+ystream.blocking.queue.size+`>>
|`128`

> |The size of the built-in blocking queue in the YStream client. Incremental logical logs are obtained directly from this queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The size of the built-in blocking queue in the YStream client. 
Incremental logical logs are obtained directly from this queue.
```

|[[yashandb-property-ystream-poll-timeout]]<<yashandb-property-ystream-poll-timeout, `+ystream.poll.timeout+`>>
|`10`
|The timeout in seconds for obtaining the next result from the blocking queue.

|[[yashandb-property-ystream-client-response-timeout]]<<yashandb-property-ystream-client-response-timeout, `+ystream.client.response.timeout+`>>
|`60`
|The maximum time in seconds that the YStream server waits for the YStream client to respond.

|[[yashandb-property-schema-include-list]]<<yashandb-property-schema-include-list, `+schema.include.list+`>>
|No default

> |An optional comma-separated list of regular expressions that match the names of schemas for which you want to capture changes. Any schema names not included in `schema.include.list` are excluded from having their changes captured. By default, changes for all non-system schemas are captured. To match schema names, Debezium applies the regular expressions you specify as anchored regular expressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|An optional comma-separated list of regular expressions that match the names of schemas for which you want to capture changes. 
Any schema names not included in `schema.include.list` are excluded from having their changes captured. 
By default, changes for all non-system schemas are captured. 
To match schema names, {prodname} applies the regular expressions you specify as anchored regular expressions.
```

|[[yashandb-property-schema-exclude-list]]<<yashandb-property-schema-exclude-list, `+schema.exclude.list+`>>
|No default

> |An optional comma-separated list of regular expressions that match the names of schemas for which you do not want to capture changes. Any schema names not included in `schema.exclude.list` have their changes captured, except for system schemas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|An optional comma-separated list of regular expressions that match the names of schemas for which you do not want to capture changes. 
The connector captures changes for any schema  whose name is not included in `schema.exclude.list` , except for system schemas.
```

|[[yashandb-property-table-include-list]]<<yashandb-property-table-include-list, `+table.include.list+`>>
|No default
|An optional comma-separated list of regular expressions that match fully-qualified table identifiers for tables to be captured.
When this property is set, the connector captures changes only from the specified tables.

> Each table identifier uses the following format: `<schema_name>.<table_name>`. By default, the connector monitors every non-system table in each captured database schema.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each table identifier uses the following format: `<schema_name>.<table_name>`. 
By default, the connector monitors every non-system table in each captured database schema.
```

To match the name of a table, {prodname} applies the regular expression that you specify as an _anchored_ regular expression.

|[[yashandb-property-table-exclude-list]]<<yashandb-property-table-exclude-list, `+table.exclude.list+`>>
|No default
|An optional comma-separated list of regular expressions that match fully-qualified table identifiers for tables to be excluded from monitoring.
The connector captures change events from any table that is not specified in the exclude list.
Specify each table identifier using the following format: `<schema_name>.<table_name>`.

To match the name of a table, {prodname} applies the regular expression that you specify as an _anchored_ regular expression.

|[[yashandb-property-max-batch-size]]<<yashandb-property-max-batch-size, `+max.batch.size+`>>
|`2048`
|A positive integer value that specifies the maximum size of each batch of events to be processed during each iteration of this connector.

|[[yashandb-property-max-queue-size]]<<yashandb-property-max-queue-size, `+max.queue.size+`>>
|`8192`

> |A positive integer value that specifies the maximum number of records that the blocking queue can hold. When Debezium reads the stream of events from the database, it places them in a blocking queue before writing the events to Kafka. The blocking queue prevents data loss in situations where the connector receives messages faster than it can write them to Kafka, or when Kafka is unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A positive integer value that specifies the maximum number of records that the blocking queue can hold. 
When {prodname} reads the stream of events from the database, it places them in a blocking queue before writing the events to Kafka. 
The blocking queue prevents data loss in situations where the connector receives messages faster than it can write them to Kafka, or when Kafka is unavailable.
```

|[[yashandb-property-max-queue-size-in-bytes]]<<yashandb-property-max-queue-size-in-bytes, `+max.queue.size.in.bytes+`>>
|`0` (disabled)

> |A long integer value that specifies the maximum capacity of the blocking queue in bytes. By default, no volume limit is specified for the blocking queue. To specify the number of bytes the queue can consume, set this property to a positive long value. If `max.queue.size` is also set, writes to the queue are blocked when the queue size reaches the limit specified by either property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A long integer value that specifies the maximum capacity of the blocking queue in bytes. 
By default, no volume limit is specified for the blocking queue. 
To specify the number of bytes the queue can consume, set this property to a positive long value. 
If `max.queue.size` is also set, writes to the queue are blocked when the queue size reaches the limit specified by either property.
```

|[[yashandb-property-poll-interval-ms]]<<yashandb-property-poll-interval-ms, `+poll.interval.ms+`>>
|`500` (0.5 seconds)
|A positive integer value that specifies the number of milliseconds the connector should wait for new change events to appear during each iteration.

|[[yashandb-property-skipped-operations]]<<yashandb-property-skipped-operations, `+skipped.operations+`>>
|`t`

> |A comma-separated list of operation types that you want the connector to skip during streaming. You can configure the connector to skip the following types of operations: `c` (insert/create), `u` (update), `d` (delete), `t` (truncate). By default, only truncate operations are skipped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|A comma-separated list of operation types that you want the connector to skip during streaming. 
You can configure the connector to skip the following types of operations: `c` (insert/create), `u` (update), `d` (delete), `t` (truncate). 
By default, only truncate operations are skipped.
```

|[[yashandb-property-snapshot-mode]]<<yashandb-property-snapshot-mode, `+snapshot.mode+`>>
|`initial`

> |Specifies the mode that the connector uses to perform a snapshot of the captured tables. You can set the following values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the mode that the connector uses to perform a snapshot of the captured tables. 
You can set the following values:
```

* `always`: Perform a snapshot every time the connector starts.
* `initial`: Perform an initial snapshot when the connector starts.
* `initial_only`: Perform only the initial snapshot, without streaming subsequent changes.
* `no_data`: Capture only table structures, not data.
* `recovery`: Restore a lost or corrupted schema history topic.

> * `when_needed`: Perform a snapshot only when needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`always`:: Perform a snapshot every time the connector starts.
`initial`:: Perform an initial snapshot when the connector starts.
`initial_only`:: Perform only the initial snapshot, without streaming subsequent changes.
`no_data`:: Capture only table structures, not data.
`recovery`:: Restore a lost or corrupted schema history topic.
`when_needed`:: Perform a snapshot only when needed.
```

|[[yashandb-property-snapshot-fetch-size]]<<yashandb-property-snapshot-fetch-size, `+snapshot.fetch.size+`>>
|`10000`

> |Specifies the maximum number of rows to read from each table at a time during a snapshot. The connector reads table contents in multiple batches of the specified size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the maximum number of rows to read from each table at a time during a snapshot. 
The connector reads table contents in multiple batches of the specified size.
```

|[[yashandb-property-snapshot-max-threads]]<<yashandb-property-snapshot-max-threads, `+snapshot.max.threads+`>>
|`1`

> |Specifies the number of threads the connector uses when performing the initial snapshot. To enable parallel initial snapshots, set the property to a value greater than 1. In a parallel initial snapshot, the connector processes multiple tables simultaneously. This feature is in incubation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the number of threads the connector uses when performing the initial snapshot. 
To enable parallel initial snapshots, set the property to a value greater than 1. 
In a parallel initial snapshot, the connector processes multiple tables simultaneously. 

This feature is incubating and is subject to change.
```

|[[yashandb-property-snapshot-locking-mode]]<<yashandb-property-snapshot-locking-mode, `+snapshot.locking.mode+`>>
|No default

> |Locking mode to prevent DDL changes before synchronizing snapshot data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies whether the connector uses locking mode to prevent DDL changes before synchronizing snapshot data.
Set one of the following values:
```

* `none`: No locks are acquired.

> * `shared`: Shared locks are acquired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[horizontal]
`none`:: No locks are acquired.
`shared`:: Shared locks are acquired.
```

|[[yashandb-property-lob-enabled]]<<yashandb-property-lob-enabled, `+lob.enabled+`>>
|`false`

> |Controls whether large object (CLOB or BLOB, etc.) column values are emitted in change events. By default, change events have large object columns, but these columns do not contain values. There is some overhead when processing and managing large object column types and payloads. To capture large object values and serialize them in change events, set this option to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies whether large object (CLOB or BLOB, etc.) column values are emitted in change events. 
By default, change events have large object columns, but these columns do not contain values. 
There is some overhead when processing and managing large object column types and payloads. 
To capture large object values and serialize them in change events, set this option to `true`.
```

|[[yashandb-property-decimal-handling-mode]]<<yashandb-property-decimal-handling-mode, `+decimal.handling.mode+`>>
|`precise`

> |Specifies how the connector should handle floating-point values for `NUMBER` columns. You can set one of the following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies how the connector should handle floating-point values for `NUMBER` columns. 
You can set one of the following options:
```

* `precise` (default): Use `java.math.BigDecimal` to represent values precisely. Represented in binary form in change events.
* `double`: Use `FLOAT64` (double-precision floating-point) to represent values.

> * `string`: Use `STRING` to represent values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`precise`:: (default) Use `java.math.BigDecimal` to represent values precisely. 
Represented in binary form in change events.
`double`:: Use `FLOAT64` (double-precision floating-point) to represent values.
`string`:: Use `STRING` to represent values.
```

|[[yashandb-property-unavailable-value-placeholder]]<<yashandb-property-unavailable-value-placeholder, `+unavailable.value.placeholder+`>>
|`__debezium_unavailable_value`

> |Specifies the constant provided by the connector to indicate that the original value was not changed and is not provided by the database. For example, if a LOB fails to be retrieved, this placeholder is used instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the constant provided by the connector to indicate that the original value was not changed and is not provided by the database. 
For example, if a LOB fails to be retrieved, this placeholder is used instead.
```

|[[yashandb-property-signal-data-collection]]<<yashandb-property-signal-data-collection, `+signal.data.collection+`>>
|No default

> |The fully qualified name of the data collection used to send signals to the connector. Specify the collection name using the following format: `<databaseName>.<schemaName>.<tableName>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The fully qualified name of the data collection used to send signals to the connector. 
Specify the collection name using the following format: `<databaseName>.<schemaName>.<tableName>`.
```

|[[yashandb-property-signal-enabled-channels]]<<yashandb-property-signal-enabled-channels, `+signal.enabled.channels+`>>
|`source`

> |The list of signal channel names enabled for the connector. By default, the following channels are available: `source`, `kafka`, `file`, `jmx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The list of signal channel names enabled for the connector. 
By default, the following channels are available: `source`, `kafka`, `file`, `jmx`.
```

|[[yashandb-property-notification-enabled-channels]]<<yashandb-property-notification-enabled-channels, `+notification.enabled.channels+`>>
|No default

> |The list of notification channel names enabled for the connector. By default, the following channels are available: `sink`, `log`, `jmx`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The list of notification channel names enabled for the connector. 
By default, the following channels are available: `sink`, `log`, `jmx`.
```

|[[yashandb-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size]]<<yashandb-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size, `+incremental.snapshot.chunk.size+`>>
|`1024`

> |The maximum number of rows that the connector fetches and reads into memory during an incremental snapshot chunk. Increasing the chunk size can provide higher efficiency because the snapshot runs fewer snapshot queries, but the queries are larger. However, larger chunk sizes also require more memory to buffer snapshot data. Tune the chunk size to a value that provides optimal performance in your environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The maximum number of rows that the connector fetches and reads into memory during an incremental snapshot chunk. 
Increasing the chunk size can provide higher efficiency because the snapshot runs fewer snapshot queries, but the queries are larger. 
However, larger chunk sizes also require more memory to buffer snapshot data. 
Tune the chunk size to a value that provides optimal performance in your environment.
```

|[[yashandb-property-topic-naming-strategy]]<<yashandb-property-topic-naming-strategy, `+topic.naming.strategy+`>>
|`io.debezium.schema.SchemaTopicNamingStrategy`
|The name of the class used to determine topic names for data changes, schema changes, transactions, heartbeat events, etc. Defaults to `SchemaTopicNamingStrategy`.

|[[yashandb-property-topic-delimiter]]<<yashandb-property-topic-delimiter, `+topic.delimiter+`>>
|`.`

> |Specifies the delimiter for topic names. Defaults to a dot (`.`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the delimiter for topic names. 
Defaults to a dot (`.`).
```

|[[yashandb-property-converters]]<<yashandb-property-converters, `+converters+`>>
|No default

> |Enumerates a comma-separated list of the symbolic names of the custom converter instances that the connector can use. This property is required to enable the connector to use a custom converter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Enumerates a comma-separated list of the symbolic names of the custom converter instances that the connector can use. 
This property is required to enable the connector to use a custom converter.
```

For each converter that you configure for a connector, you must also add a `.type` property, which specifies the fully-qualified name of the class that implements the converter interface.

|[[yashandb-property-converter-type]]<<yashandb-property-converter-type, `+<converter_name>.type+`>>
|No default

> |Configures the class name of a custom converter for Debezium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Configures the class name of a custom converter for {prodname}.
```

|[[yashandb-property-converter-param]]<<yashandb-property-converter-param, `+<converter_name>.<param_name>+`>>
|No default
|Configuration for custom converters, set according to how the converter is used.

|[[yashandb-property-query-fetch-size]]<<yashandb-property-query-fetch-size, `+query.fetch.size+`>>
|`10000`
|The fetch size for JDBC queries.

|[[yashandb-property-ddl-parse-fail-retry-read-table]]<<yashandb-property-ddl-parse-fail-retry-read-table, `+ddl.parse.fail.retry.read.table+`>>
|`false`

> |After incremental DDL parsing fails, fully read the source table structure for analysis when processing DML events. This takes effect when both `schema.history.internal.skip.unparseable.ddl` and `ddl.parse.fail.retry.read.table` are set to `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|After incremental DDL parsing fails, fully read the source table structure for analysis when processing DML events. 
This property takes effect when both `schema.history.internal.skip.unparseable.ddl` and `ddl.parse.fail.retry.read.table` are set to `true`.
```

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-class]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-class, `+schema.history.internal+`>>
|No default

> |The name of the class that handles schema changes for the connector. For YashanDB, use `io.debezium.relational.history.KafkaSchemaHistory`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the class that handles schema changes for the connector. 
For YashanDB, use `io.debezium.relational.history.KafkaSchemaHistory`.
```

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-store-only-captured-tables-ddl]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-store-only-captured-tables-ddl, `+schema.history.internal.store.only.captured.tables.ddl+`>>
|`false`

> |Controls whether the connector records the DDL statements for all tables in the database, or only for tables that are captured. Set to `true` to store DDL only for captured tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies whether the connector records the DDL statements for all tables in the database, or only for tables that are captured. 
Set to `true` to store DDL only for captured tables.
```

[id="debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-kafka-sink-notification-configuration-properties"]
===== Pass-through properties for configuring the YashanDB connector sink notification channel

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-pass-through-kafka-sink-notification-configuration-properties.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-database-driver-configuration-properties"]
===== {prodname} connector pass-through database driver configuration properties

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-pass-through-database-driver-configuration-properties.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[[monitoring-yashandb-connector]]
== Monitoring

The {prodname} YashanDB connector provides three metric types in addition to the built-in support for JMX metrics that Apache Kafka and Kafka Connect have.

* xref:yashandb-snapshot-metrics[snapshot metrics]; for monitoring the connector when performing snapshots
* xref:yashandb-streaming-metrics[streaming metrics]; for monitoring the connector when processing change events
* xref:yashandb-schema-history-metrics[schema history metrics]; for monitoring the status of the connector's schema history

> Please refer to the {link-prefix}:{link-debezium-monitoring}#monitoring-debezium[monitoring documentation] for details of how to expose these metrics via JMX.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details about how to expose use JMX to expose metrics, see the {link-prefix}:{link-debezium-monitoring}#monitoring-debezium[{prodname} monitoring documentation] .
```

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-monitoring-schema-history-metrics.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[[yashandb-faq]]
== Frequently Asked Questions

[[yashandb-faq-ystream-server-not-found]]
*Error: YashanDB does not yet have the YStream server 'serverxx' or check option 'database.ystream.server.name' if the parameters are filled in correctly.*::
+
The YStream server corresponding to the `database.ystream.server.name` parameter does not exist in the YashanDB database. Create the relevant YStream server as described in xref:yashandb-ystream-service[Configure the YStream service].

[[yashandb-faq-ystream-server-not-started]]
*Error: YashanDB YStream server status is xxx. Please execute 'DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.START(...)' start YStream server.*::
+
The YStream server corresponding to the `database.ystream.server.name` parameter is not in a running state. Please execute the following command in the database to start the YStream service:
+
[source,sql,indent=0]
----
EXEC DBMS_YSTREAM_ADM.START('server1');
----

[[yashandb-faq-decimal-serialization]]
*After Decimal values are synchronized to Kafka, why is the serialized data incorrect?*::
+

> Debezium performs special handling for Decimals with negative scale. It is recommended to use the parameter `decimal.handling.mode=string` to work around this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prodname} performs special handling for Decimals with negative scale. 
To work around this issue, use the parameter `decimal.handling.mode=string`.
```

[[yashandb-faq-timestamp-format]]
*After DATE/TIME/TIMESTAMP values are synchronized to Kafka, why are they in timestamp form rather than 'yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSSSSS' form?*::
+

> Debezium's default behavior is to map temporal types to `INT64`. If you need to map them to a fixed format string, please refer to the <<yashandb-custom-converters,Data type conversion>> section to configure custom converters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, {prodname} maps temporal types to `INT64`. 
For information about how to map temporal types to a fixed format string, configure custom converters, as described in the <<yashandb-custom-converters,Data type conversion>> section.
```

[[yashandb-faq-resume-from-checkpoint]]
*Does the YashanDB Connector support resuming from a checkpoint? After a task stops or fails, can it capture incremental data from the last committed position?*::
+

> Yes, the YashanDB Connector supports resuming from a checkpoint. Based on Kafka's two-phase commit, after a task stops or fails, the last successfully committed log position is recorded in Kafka's metadata. When the task is resumed, the connector obtains the last committed log position and starts capturing data from that position, ensuring exactly-once data synchronization to Kafka topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, the YashanDB Connector supports resuming from a checkpoint. 
Based on Kafka's two-phase commit, after a task stops or fails, the last successfully committed log position is recorded in Kafka's metadata. 
When the task is resumed, the connector obtains the last committed log position and starts capturing data from that position, ensuring exactly-once data synchronization to Kafka topics.
```

[[yashandb-faq-schema-capture-scope]]
*The YashanDB Connector captures the metadata structure of all tables in the database in the task logs. Is there a way to make the connector only capture the metadata structure for configured tables (schema.include.list and table.include.list)?*::
+

> Debezium captures the structure of all tables in the database by default. You can set `schema.history.internal.store.only.captured.tables.ddl=true` in the task configuration to capture only the structure of configured tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, {prodname} captures the structure of all tables in the database. 
You can set `schema.history.internal.store.only.captured.tables.ddl=true` in the task configuration to capture only the structure of configured tables.
```

[[yashandb-faq-schema-not-captured-after-recreate]]

> *After deleting and recreating a task, the table metadata structure is not captured upon restart (e.g., "Capturing structure of table" does not appear in the logs). What causes this?*::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*After deleting and recreating a task, the table metadata structure is not captured upon restart (for example, "Capturing structure of table" does not appear in the logs). What causes this?*::
```

+

> The connector stores table metadata in the Kafka topic specified by the `schema.history.internal.kafka.topic` property. When you delete and recreate a task with the same name, the connector reads the existing metadata from the schema history topic rather than capturing a new snapshot of the table structures, provided that the schema history topic has not been deleted. To capture the table metadata again, either delete the schema history topic or change the task name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector stores table metadata in the Kafka topic specified by the `schema.history.internal.kafka.topic` property. 
When you delete and recreate a task with the same name, the connector reads the existing metadata from the schema history topic rather than capturing a new snapshot of the table structures, provided that the schema history topic has not been deleted. 
To capture the table metadata again, either delete the schema history topic or change the task name.
```

[[yashandb-faq-unsupported-types]]
*The documentation states that custom data types, XMLTYPE, and JSON data types are not supported, yet XMLTYPE and JSON data can still be synchronized to Kafka topics. Why?*::
+

> The type support of the YashanDB Connector depends on the support range of YashanDB YStream. XMLTYPE and JSON data can be synchronized normally, but the correctness of the data cannot be guaranteed and depends on YStream's support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The type support of the YashanDB Connector depends on the support range of YashanDB YStream.
XMLTYPE and JSON data can be synchronized normally, but the correctness of the data cannot be guaranteed and depends on YStream's support.
```

[[yashandb-faq-skip-ddl]]
*A DDL on the YashanDB source caused the task to fail when parsing this DDL. How can I skip this failed DDL?*::
+

> Debezium provides a feature to skip failed DDL parsing. You can enable this feature by modifying the task configuration to set `schema.history.internal.skip.unparseable.ddl=true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{prodname} provides a feature to skip failed DDL parsing. 
You can enable this feature by modifying the task configuration to set `schema.history.internal.skip.unparseable.ddl=true`.
```

[[yashandb-faq-ctas-failure]]
*The YashanDB source executed a DDL like "CREATE TABLE ... AS SELECT", and subsequent DML data parsing for this table fails. How should this be handled?*::
+

> This type of DDL cannot be parsed to obtain the table's metadata, causing subsequent DML data parsing to fail. After research, the Debezium Oracle Connector has the same issue. If this occurs, please restart a new synchronization task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This type of DDL cannot be parsed to obtain the table's metadata, causing subsequent DML data parsing to fail. 
The {prodname} Oracle Connector has the same issue. 
If you encouter this problem, restart a new synchronization task.
```

*Incremental DDL created using stored procedure packages (such as `DBMS_STATS.CREATE_STAT_TABLE`) cannot be identified for specific DDL statements. What causes this and how can it be handled?*::
+

> DDL statements created through stored procedure packages are not identifiable as specific DDL statements by the connector. This may cause metadata mismatches during data synchronization and result in synchronization errors. To avoid this issue, execute DDL statements directly rather than through stored procedure packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The connector cannot identify DDL statements created through stored procedure packages as specific DDL statements.
As a result metadata mismatches might occur during data synchronization, which can lead to synchronization errors. 
To avoid this issue, execute DDL statements directly rather than through stored procedure packages.
```

* YashanDB is installed, and is xref:setting-up-yashandb[configured to work with the {prodname} connector].

.Procedure

. Download the {prodname} YashanDB connector plug-in archive.
. Extract all files into your Kafka Connect environment.
. Add the directory with the JAR files to {link-kafka-docs}/#connectconfigs[Kafka Connect's `plugin.path`].
. Restart your Kafka Connect process to pick up the new JAR files.

.Next steps

* xref:yashandb-example-configuration[Configure the connector] and xref:yashandb-adding-connector-configuration[add the configuration to your Kafka Connect cluster].

[[yashandb-example-configuration]]
=== {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration

Typically, you register a {prodname} YashanDB connector by submitting a JSON request that specifies the configuration properties for the connector.
The following example shows a JSON request for registering an instance of the {prodname} YashanDB connector with logical name `server1` at port 1688:

.Example: {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration
[source,json,indent=0,subs="+quotes"]
----
{
    "name": "inventory-connector",  // <1>
    "config": {

>         "connector.class" : "io.debezium.connector.yashandb.YashanDBConnector",  // <2>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        "connector.class" : "io.debezium.connector.yashandb.YashanDbConnector",  // <2>
```

Author: Done.Thanks!

Many properties have default values.
Information about the properties is organized as follows:

* xref:yashandb-properties-required[Required {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration properties]

[[yashandb-properties-required]]
=== Required {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration properties

The {prodname} YashanDB connector uses numerous configuration properties to create the connector instance.
Descriptions of these properties are organized as follows:

* xref:required-debezium-yashandb-connector-configuration-properties[Required configuration properties]
* xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-optional-configuration-properties[Optional configuration properties]

[id="required-debezium-yashandb-connector-configuration-properties"]
==== Required configuration properties

[cols="30%a,25%a,45%a"]
|===
|Property
|Default
|Description

|[[yashandb-property-name]]<<yashandb-property-name, `+name+`>>
|No default
|Unique name for the connector. Attempting to register again with the same name will fail. (This property is required by all Kafka Connect connectors.)

|[[yashandb-property-connector-class]]<<yashandb-property-connector-class, `+connector.class+`>>
|No default

> |The name of the Java class for the connector. Always use a value of `io.debezium.connector.yashandb.YashanDBConnector` for the YashanDB connector.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|The name of the Java class for the connector. Always use a value of `io.debezium.connector.yashandb.YashanDbConnector` for the YashanDB connector.
```

Author: Done.Thanks!

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-class]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-class, `+schema.history.internal+`>>
|No default
|The name of the class that handles schema changes for the connector. For YashanDB, use `io.debezium.relational.history.KafkaSchemaHistory`.

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-store-only-captured-tables-ddl]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-store-only-captured-tables-ddl, `+schema.history.internal.store.only.captured.tables.ddl+`>>
|`false`
|Controls whether the connector records the DDL statements for all tables in the database, or only for tables that are captured. Set to `true` to store DDL only for captured tables.

|===

[[yashandb-properties-database-history]]
=== {prodname} YashanDB connector database schema history configuration properties

{prodname} provides a set of `schema.history.internal.*` properties that control how the connector interacts with the schema history topic.

The following table describes the `schema.history.internal` properties for configuring the {prodname} YashanDB connector.

> .Connector database schema history configuration properties

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason why we did not reuse the partial `ref-connector-configuration-database-history-properties.adoc` like the other connectors do?

Author: Thanks for the catch! I've updated it to reuse the partial file and replaced the hardcoded text.

[id="debezium-connector-for-yashandb"]
= {prodname} Connector for YashanDB

:context: yashandb
:data-collection: table
:database-port: 1688
:mbean-name: {context}

> :connector-class: YashanDb

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:connector-class: YashanDB
```
This should match the style in the `YashanDBConnector` class name, minus the `Connector` suffix.

Author: Hi @Naros , thanks for the review! Actually, the actual class name in the codebase is YashanDbConnector (with a lowercase 'b'). So removing the Connector suffix results in YashanDb, which matches the current code perfectly.[YashanDbConnector](https://github.com/debezium/debezium-connector-yashandb/blob/main/src/main/java/io/debezium/connector/yashandb/YashanDbConnector.java)

Reviewer 2: Thanks, I must have misread that.  Appreciate the update.

The connector uses the following convention to name change event topics:

_topicPrefix.schemaName.tableName_

The following list provides definitions for the components of the default name:

_topicPrefix_:: The topic prefix as specified by the xref:yashandb-property-topic-prefix[`topic.prefix`] connector configuration property.

_schemaName_:: The name of the schema in which the operation occurred.

_tableName_:: The name of the table in which the operation occurred.

For example, if `fulfillment` is the server name, `inventory` is the schema name, and the database contains tables with the names `orders`, `customers`, and `products`, the {prodname} YashanDB connector emits events to the following Kafka topics, one for each table in the database:

----
fulfillment.inventory.orders
fulfillment.inventory.customers
fulfillment.inventory.products
----

The connector applies similar naming conventions to label its internal database schema history topics, xref:yashandb-schema-change-topic[schema change topics], and xref:yashandb-transaction-metadata[transaction metadata topics].

> If the default topic name do not meet your requirements, you can configure custom topic names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the default topic name does not meet your requirements, you can configure custom topic names.
```

Author: Done.

The connector rebuilds the table structures that existed at this point in time by reading the database schema history Kafka topic and parsing all DDL statements up to the point in the log where the connector is starting.

This database schema history topic is for internal connector use only.
Optionally, the connector can also xref:yashandb-schema-change-topic[emit schema change events to a different topic that is intended for consumer applications].

[[yashandb-schema-change-topic]]
=== Schema change topic

You can configure a {prodname} YashanDB connector to produce schema change events that describe structural changes that are applied to tables in the database.
The connector writes schema change events to a Kafka topic named `_<serverName>_`, where `_serverName_` is the namespace that is specified in the xref:yashandb-property-topic-prefix[`topic.prefix`] configuration property.

{prodname} emits a new message to the schema change topic whenever it streams data from a new table, or when the structure of the table is altered.

[NOTE]
====
Following a change in table structure, you must follow (the xref:surrogate-schema-evolution[schema evolution procedure]).

> ====

Reviewer 2: Since the connector documentation has no `surrogate-schema-evolution` anchor, I presume this can be removed as it's no longer needed?

Author: Done.

|`initial`
|The connector performs a database snapshot.
After the snapshot completes, the connector begins to stream event records for subsequent database changes.

|`initial_only`
|The connector performs a database snapshot and stops before streaming any change event records.
The connector does not capture any change events that occur after the snapshot.

|`no_data`
|The connector captures the structure of all relevant tables, performing all of the steps described in the default snapshot workflow, except that it does not create `READ` events to represent the data set at the point of the connector's start-up.

|`recovery`
|Set this option to restore a database schema history topic that is lost or corrupted.
After a restart, the connector runs a snapshot that rebuilds the topic from the source tables.

|`when_needed`
|After the connector starts, it performs a snapshot only if it detects one of the following circumstances:

* It cannot detect any topic offsets.
* A previously recorded offset specifies a log position that is not available on the server.

|===
[[yashandb-custom-snapshotter-spi]]
=== Custom snapshotter SPI

> include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/custom-snapshotter-spi.adoc[leveloffset=+3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/custom-snapshotter-spi.adoc[leveloffset=+3]
```
To improve readability of the source, always insert a blank line after the topic heading. Also, although the missing blank line does not affect rendering in the community edition, if we later include the content in a downstream product edition, lines that immediatlye follow a heading are sometimes omitted.

`name`:: The name of the schema change event message.
`type`:: The type of the change event message.
`version`:: The version of the schema.
The version is an integer that is incremented each time the schema is changed.
`fields`:: The fields that are included in the change event message.

.Example: Schema of the YashanDB connector schema change topic
The following example shows a typical schema in JSON format.

[source,json,indent=0,subs="+attributes"]
----
{
  "schema": {
    "type": "struct",
    "fields": [
      {
        "type": "string",
        "optional": false,
        "field": "databaseName"
      }
    ],
    "optional": false,
    "name": "io.debezium.connector.yashandb.SchemaChangeKey",
    "version": 1
  },
  "payload": {
    "databaseName": "inventory"
  }
}
----

The payload of a schema change event message includes the following elements:

`ddl`:: Provides the SQL `CREATE`, `ALTER`, or `DROP` statement that results in the schema change.
`databaseName`:: The name of the database to which the statements are applied.
The value of `databaseName` serves as the message key.
`schemaName`:: The name of the schema to which the statements are applied.

> `tableChanges`::  A structured representation of the entire table schema after the schema change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`tableChanges`:: A structured representation of the entire table schema after the schema change.
```

* The `after` field is `null`, indicating that the row no longer exists.
* The `source` field has the same structure as the `source` field in _create_ events, but some field values are different.
* The `ts_ms` shows a timestamp that indicates when {prodname} processed this event.

The _delete_ event provides consumers with the information that they require to process the removal of this row.

The YashanDB connector's events are designed to work with https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/Log+Compaction[Kafka log compaction],
which allows for the removal of some older messages as long as at least the most recent message for every key is kept.
This allows Kafka to reclaim storage space while ensuring the topic contains a complete dataset and can be used for reloading key-based state.

When a row is deleted, the _delete_ event value shown in the preceding example still works with log compaction, because Kafka is able to remove all earlier messages that use the same key.
The message value must be set to `null` to instruct Kafka to remove _all messages_ that share the same key.

> To make this possible, by default, the {prodname} YashanDB connector always follows a _delete_ event with a special _tombstone_ event that has the same key but `null` value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make this possible, by default, the {prodname} YashanDB connector always follows a _delete_ event with a special _tombstone_ event that has the same key but a `null` value.
```

[[yashandb-excluded-schemas]]
=== Schemas excluded from capture

When the {prodname} YashanDB connector captures tables, it automatically excludes tables from the following schemas:

* `SYS`
* `MDSYS`
* `XA_SYS`

To enable the connector to capture changes from a table, the table must use a schema that is not named in the preceding list.

[[yashandb-ystream-pool]]
=== Configure the YStream memory pool

Incremental data depends on YStream to obtain committed data from YashanDB in real time.
When you use YashanDB as the source for tasks that include incremental synchronization, you must first allocate a memory pool for YStream on YashanDB:

[source,sql,indent=0]
----
ALTER SYSTEM SET STREAM_POOL_SIZE = '512M';
----

[CAUTION]
====
Failure to configure this parameter can cause the task to fail.
This parameter is a global parameter.
For more information, see the https://doc.yashandb.com/en/[YashanDB documentation].
====

[[yashandb-supplemental-logging]]
=== Enable supplemental logging

Reading incremental data changes requires supplemental logging to be enabled.

==== Database-level supplemental logging

> To permit the connector to monitor all objects in the database, including new objects, enable database-level supplemental logging: in YashanDB:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To permit the connector to monitor all objects in the database, including new objects, enable database-level supplemental logging in YashanDB:
```
Remove extra colon.

=== Adding connector configuration

To start running a {prodname} YashanDB connector, create a connector configuration, and add the configuration to your Kafka Connect cluster.

.Prerequisites

* xref:setting-up-yashandb[YashanDB is configured for use with {prodname}].
* The {prodname} YashanDB connector is installed.

.Procedure

. Create a xref:yashandb-example-configuration[configuration] for the YashanDB connector.

. Use the link:{link-kafka-docs}/#connect_rest[Kafka Connect REST API] to add that connector configuration to your Kafka Connect cluster.

.Results

After the connector starts, it xref:yashandb-snapshots[performs a consistent snapshot] of the YashanDB databases that the connector is configured for.
The connector then starts generating data change events for row-level operations and streaming the change event records to Kafka topics.

[[yashandb-properties]]
== Connector properties

The {prodname} YashanDB connector has numerous configuration properties that you can use to achieve the right connector behavior for your application.
Many properties have default values.
Information about the properties is organized as follows:

> * xref:yashandb-properties-required[Required {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration properties]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:yashandb-properties-required[Required {prodname} YashanDB connector configuration properties]
* xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-optional-configuration-properties[Optional {prodname} YashanDB configuration properties]
* xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-database-history-configuration-properties[{prodname} YashanDB connector database schema history configuration properties]
** xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-properties[Pass-through YashanDB connector configuration properties]
** xref:debezium-yashandb-pass-through-database-history-properties-for-configuring-producer-and-consumer-clients[Pass-through properties for configuring how producer and consumer clients interact with schema history topics]
** xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-kafka-signals-configuration-properties[Pass-through properties for configuring how the YashanDB connector interacts with the Kafka signaling topic]
** xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-signals-kafka-consumer-client-configuration-properties[Pass-through properties for configuring the Kafka consumer client for the signaling channel]
** xref:ebezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-kafka-sink-notification-configuration-properties[Pass-through properties for configuring the YashanDB connector sink notification channel]
** xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-database-driver-configuration-properties[{prodname} connector pass-through database driver configuration properties]

```

|`source`
|The list of signal channel names enabled for the connector.
By default, the following channels are available: `source`, `kafka`, `file`, `jmx`.

|[[yashandb-property-notification-enabled-channels]]<<yashandb-property-notification-enabled-channels, `+notification.enabled.channels+`>>
|No default
|The list of notification channel names enabled for the connector.
By default, the following channels are available: `sink`, `log`, `jmx`.

|[[yashandb-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size]]<<yashandb-property-incremental-snapshot-chunk-size, `+incremental.snapshot.chunk.size+`>>
|`1024`
|The maximum number of rows that the connector fetches and reads into memory during an incremental snapshot chunk.
Increasing the chunk size can provide higher efficiency because the snapshot runs fewer snapshot queries, but the queries are larger.
However, larger chunk sizes also require more memory to buffer snapshot data.
Tune the chunk size to a value that provides optimal performance in your environment.

|[[yashandb-property-topic-naming-strategy]]<<yashandb-property-topic-naming-strategy, `+topic.naming.strategy+`>>
|`io.debezium.schema.SchemaTopicNamingStrategy`

> |The name of the class used to determine topic names for data changes, schema changes, transactions, heartbeat events, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|The name of the class used to determine topic names for data changes, schema changes, transactions, heartbeat events, and so on.
```
Per Red Hat and IBM style guidelines. do not use Latin abbreviations, such as etc, e.g., or i.e.

|`false`
|After incremental DDL parsing fails, fully read the source table structure for analysis when processing DML events.
This property takes effect when both `schema.history.internal.skip.unparseable.ddl` and `ddl.parse.fail.retry.read.table` are set to `true`.

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-class]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-class, `+schema.history.internal+`>>
|No default
|The name of the class that handles schema changes for the connector.
For YashanDB, use `io.debezium.relational.history.KafkaSchemaHistory`.

|[[yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-store-only-captured-tables-ddl]]<<yashandb-property-schema-history-internal-store-only-captured-tables-ddl, `+schema.history.internal.store.only.captured.tables.ddl+`>>
|`false`
|Specifies whether the connector records the DDL statements for all tables in the database, or only for tables that are captured.
Set to `true` to store DDL only for captured tables.

|===

[id="debezium-yashandb-connector-database-history-configuration-properties"]
==== {prodname} YashanDB connector database schema history configuration properties

> include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-configuration-database-history-properties.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

Reviewer: ```suggestion

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-configuration-database-history-properties.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
```
Insert blank line after topic title.

[id="debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-kafka-sink-notification-configuration-properties"]
===== Pass-through properties for configuring the YashanDB connector sink notification channel

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-pass-through-kafka-sink-notification-configuration-properties.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[id="debezium-yashandb-connector-pass-through-database-driver-configuration-properties"]
===== {prodname} connector pass-through database driver configuration properties

include::{partialsdir}/modules/all-connectors/ref-connector-pass-through-database-driver-configuration-properties.adoc[leveloffset=+1]

[[monitoring-yashandb-connector]]
== Monitoring

The {prodname} YashanDB connector provides three metric types in addition to the built-in support for JMX metrics that Apache Kafka and Kafka Connect have.

* xref:yashandb-snapshot-metrics[snapshot metrics]; for monitoring the connector when performing snapshots
* xref:yashandb-streaming-metrics[streaming metrics]; for monitoring the connector when processing change events

> * xref:yashandb-schema-history-metrics[schema history metrics]; for monitoring the status of the connector's schema history

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:yashandb-snapshot-metrics[Snapshot metrics] for monitoring the connector when performing snapshots
* xref:yashandb-streaming-metrics[Streaming metrics] for monitoring the connector when processing change events
* xref:yashandb-schema-history-metrics[Schema history metrics] for monitoring the status of the connector's schema history
```

> // Category: debezium-using

Reviewer 2: An entry should be added to `nav.adoc` and another to the `install.adoc`, too.

Author: Done

> // Type: assembly

Reviewer 2: Let's avoid any of these special `// SECTION: VALUE` comments. While the other documentation pages use these, those pages are ingested by other consumers that YashanDB won't for now.

Author: Done. Removed the special comments as suggested. Thanks for the explanation!

[id="debezium-connector-for-yashandb"]
= {prodname} Connector for YashanDB

:context: yashandb
:data-collection: table
:database-port: 1688
:mbean-name: {context}
:connector-class: YashanDb
:connector-file: {context}
:connector-name: YashanDB
:include-list-example: inventory.customers
:collection-container: database.schema

> ifdef::community[]

Reviewer 2: Let's avoid the use of the `ifdef::community[]` and `ifdef::product[]` blocks.

For the community ones, you can leave the content in the block, just remove the `ifdef` / `endif` pairs.  For the product ones, remove the entire block.

Author: Done. I've removed the ifdef/endif pairs for the community blocks and removed the product blocks entirely as suggested.

You can configure the connector to emit change events for specific subsets of schemas and tables, synchronizing the change events to Kafka.

ifdef::community[]
For information about the YashanDB versions that are compatible with this connector, see the {prodname} release overview.
endif::community[]

{prodname} can ingest change events from YashanDB by using the native YStream database package.
For more information about YashanDB and YStream, see the https://www.yashandb.com/[YashanDB official website].

ifdef::product[]

Information and procedures for using a {prodname} YashanDB connector are organized as follows:

  * xref:how-debezium-yashandb-connectors-work[]
  * xref:descriptions-of-debezium-yashandb-connector-data-change-events[]
  * xref:how-debezium-yashandb-connectors-map-data-types[]
  * xref:setting-up-yashandb-to-work-with-debezium[]
  * xref:deployment-of-debezium-yashandb-connectors[]
  * xref:descriptions-of-debezium-yashandb-connector-configuration-properties[]
  * xref:monitoring-debezium-yashandb-connector-performance[]
  * xref:debezium-yashandb-connector-frequently-asked-questions[]

> endif::product[]

Reviewer 2: Remove product block

Author: Removed

====

ifdef::community[]
[WARNING]
====
The schema change topic message format is in an incubating state and might change without notice.
====
endif::community[]

.Example: Message emitted to the YashanDB connector schema change topic
The following example shows a typical schema change message in JSON format.
The message contains a logical representation of the table schema.

[source,json,indent=0,subs="+attributes"]
----
{
  "schema": {
  ...
  },
  "payload": {
    "source": {
      "version": "{debezium-version}",
      "connector": "yashandb",
      "name": "server1",
      "ts_ms": 1780017300692,
      "snapshot": "false",
      "db": "",
      "sequence": null,
      "ts_us": 1780017300692853,
      "ts_ns": 1780017300692853000,
      "schema": "DEBEZIUM",
      "table": "CUSTOMERS",
      "txId": "131072047",
      "scn": "828249295637925888",
      "commit_scn": null,
      "lcr_position": null,
      "position_scn": 828249295637925888,
      "group_lsn": 3692924,
      "group_offset": 220,
      "instance_id": "0",
      "rs_id": null,

>       "ssn": 0,

Reviewer 2: I notice a lot of overlap here with the Oracle connector's `SourceInfo` setup, and looking at the YashanDB connector, these fields are never being populated. Ideally, the source information block should contain only the relevant fields, and the connector should align with that as well.

This applies to all event examples in the docs.

Author: Thanks for pointing this out,@Naros . I have updated both the code and the documentation to clean up the SourceInfo setup for the YashanDB connector, ensuring only the relevant fields are kept and aligned. I also updated all the event examples in the docs as suggested.

You can find the changes here: [[PR link]](https://github.com/debezium/debezium-connector-yashandb/pull/12). Looking forward to your review!

              "nativeType": null,
              "typeName": "VARCHAR2",
              "typeExpression": "VARCHAR2",
              "charsetName": null,
              "length": 255,
              "scale": null,
              "position": 2,
              "optional": true,
              "autoIncremented": false,
              "generated": false
            }
          ],
          "attributes": [ // <11>
            {
              "customAttribute": "attributeValue"
            }
          ]
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
----

.Descriptions of fields in messages emitted to the schema change topic
[cols="1,4,5",options="header"]
|===
|Item |Field name |Description

|1
|`ts_ms`
|Optional field that displays the time at which the connector processed the event.
The time is based on the system clock in the JVM running the Kafka Connect task.

|2
|`databaseName`
|Identifies the database that contains the change.

|3
|`schemaName`
|Identifies the schema that contains the change.

|4
|`ddl`
|This field contains the DDL that is responsible for the schema change.

|5
|`tableChanges`
|An array of one or more items that contain the schema changes generated by a DDL command.

|6
|`type`

> a|Describes the kind of change. The `type` can be set to one of the following values:

Reviewer 3: 句首的a是手误输入多了吗？会不会影响表格格式

Author: a是adoc的规范，后面会进行格式化成相关格式

`CREATE`:: Table created.

> `ALTER`:: Table modified.

Reviewer 3: 要不要用altered，前后文更一致，后文392行也用的altered

Author: 这是debezium的官方语义，不需要改，参考MySQL和Oracle

`DROP`:: Table deleted.

|7
|`id`
|Full identifier of the table that was created, altered, or dropped.
In the case of a table rename, this identifier is a concatenation of `_<old>_,_<new>_` table names.

|8
|`table`
|Represents table metadata after the applied change.

|9
|`primaryKeyColumnNames`
|List of columns that compose the table's primary key.

|10
|`columns`
|Metadata for each column in the changed table.

|11
|`attributes`
|Custom attribute metadata for each table change.

|===

> In messages that the connector sends to the schema change topic

Reviewer 3: 多余行？ 看起来又不像标题样式，而且与415前半句重复

Author: 感谢，已经删除

  "id": "5.6.641",
  "ts_ms": 1486500577125,
  "event_count": null,
  "data_collections": null
}

{
  "status": "END",
  "id": "5.6.641",
  "ts_ms": 1486500577691,
  "event_count": 2,
  "data_collections": [
    {
      "data_collection": "inventory.DEBEZIUM.CUSTOMERS",
      "event_count": 1
    },
    {
      "data_collection": "inventory.DEBEZIUM.ORDERS",
      "event_count": 1
    }
  ]
}
----

// Type: assembly
// ModuleID: descriptions-of-debezium-yashandb-connector-data-change-events
// Title: Descriptions of {prodname} YashanDB connector data change events
[[yashandb-events]]
== Data change events

Every data change event that the YashanDB connector emits has a key and a value.
The structures of the key and value depend on the table from which the change events originate.
For information about how {prodname} constructs topic names, see xref:yashandb-topic-names[Topic names].

[WARNING]
====
The {prodname} YashanDB connector ensures that all Kafka Connect _schema names_ are http://avro.apache.org/docs/current/spec.html#names[valid Avro schema names].
This means that the logical server name must start with alphabetic characters or an underscore ([a-z,A-Z,\_]),

> and the remaining characters in the logical server name and all characters in the schema and table names must be alphanumeric characters or an underscore ([a-z,A-Z,0-9,\_]).

Reviewer 3: 一句话还没结束，此处无需换行

Author: 这里虽然编写时做了换行，是为了保证编写语法格式风格（句号后要换行），但是实际渲染出来没有换行

The connector automatically replaces invalid characters with an underscore character.

Unexpected naming conflicts can result when the only distinguishing characters between multiple logical server names, schema names, or table names are not valid characters, and those characters are replaced with underscores.
====

ifdef::community[]
{prodname} and Kafka Connect are designed around _continuous streams of event messages_.
However, the structure of these events might change over time, which can be difficult for topic consumers to handle.
To facilitate the processing of mutable event structures, each event in Kafka Connect is self-contained.
Every message key and value has two parts: a _schema_ and _payload_.
The schema describes the structure of the payload, while the payload contains the actual data.
endif::community[]

ifdef::product[]
The following topics contain more details about data change events:

* xref:about-keys-in-debezium-yashandb-connector-change-events[]
* xref:about-values-in-debezium-yashandb-connector-change-events[]

> endif::product[]

Reviewer 2: Remove product block

Author: Removed

[source,json,indent=0,subs="+attributes"]
----
{
    "schema": {
        "type": "struct",
        "fields": [
            {
                "type": "int32",
                "optional": false,
                "field": "ID"
            }
        ],
        "optional": false,
        "name": "server1.inventory.customers.Key"
    },
    "payload": {
        "ID": 1001
    }
}
----

The `schema` portion of the key contains a Kafka Connect schema that describes the content of the key portion.
In the preceding example, the `payload` value is not optional, the structure is defined by a schema named `server1.inventory.customers.Key`, and there is one required field named `ID` of type `int32`.
The value of the key's `payload` field indicates that it is indeed a structure (which in JSON is just an object) with a single `ID` field, whose value is `1001`.

Therefore, you can interpret this key as describing the row in the `inventory.customers` table (output from the connector named `server1`) whose `ID` primary key column had a value of `1001`.

// Type: concept
// ModuleID: about-values-in-debezium-yashandb-connector-change-events

> // Title: About values in {prodname} YashanDB connector change events

Reviewer 3: 冒号后面的首字母大写跟577 578不一致

Author: 已经根据建议删除

The structure is described by the `server1.inventory.customers.Value` Kafka Connect schema, which the `server1` connector uses for all rows in the `inventory.customers` table.
`after`:: An optional field that, if present, contains the state of a row _after_ a change occurs.
The structure is described by the same `server1.inventory.customers.Value` Kafka Connect schema that is used for the `before` field.
`source`:: A mandatory field that contains a structure that describes the source metadata for the event.
In the case of the YashanDB connector, the structure includes the following fields:
+
* The {prodname} version.
* The connector name.
* Whether the event is part of an ongoing snapshot or not.
* The transaction ID (not included for snapshots).
* The following values related to the SCN (system change number) that the database assigns when a change is committed:
[horizontal]
`scn`:: The unique identifier that the database uses to track the transaction.
`commit_scn`:: The SCN at which the transaction was committed.
* Timestamps that represent when the connector processed the event, based on the system clock of the JVM running the Kafka Connect task.

> For snapshots, the timestamp indicates when the snapshot occurred. +

Reviewer 3: 句末的+号也是样式符号嘛，请确认

Author: 已经删除掉，并重新调整

The connector reports the timestamp value with differing precision in the following fields:
[horizontal]
`ts_ms`:: Provides the timestamp in milliseconds.
`ts_us`:: Provides the timestamp in microseconds.
`ts_ns`:: Provides the timestamp in nanoseconds.

.Schema of a change event value
The _schema_ portion of the event message's value contains a schema that describes the envelope structure of the payload and the nested fields within it.

ifdef::product[]
For more information about change event values, see the following topics:

* xref:yashandb-create-events[_create_ events]
* xref:yashandb-update-events[_update_ events]
* xref:yashandb-delete-events[_delete_ events]

> endif::product[]

Reviewer 2: Remove block

Author: Removed

To match the name of a table, {prodname} applies the regular expression that you specify as an _anchored_ regular expression.

|[[yashandb-property-table-exclude-list]]<<yashandb-property-table-exclude-list, `+table.exclude.list+`>>
|No default
|An optional comma-separated list of regular expressions that match fully-qualified table identifiers for tables to be excluded from monitoring.
The connector captures change events from any table that is not specified in the exclude list.
Specify each table identifier using the following format: `<schema_name>.<table_name>`.

To match the name of a table, {prodname} applies the regular expression that you specify as an _anchored_ regular expression.

|[[yashandb-property-max-batch-size]]<<yashandb-property-max-batch-size, `+max.batch.size+`>>
|`2048`
|A positive integer value that specifies the maximum size of each batch of events to be processed during each iteration of this connector.

|[[yashandb-property-max-queue-size]]<<yashandb-property-max-queue-size, `+max.queue.size+`>>

> |`9182`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|`8192`
```

Author: Done, I've changed 8192. Thanks!
